# Non-Disclosure and Non-Compete Agreements

<p><span>We should make the client aware that we adopt the same approach as </span><a href="http://www.paulgraham.com/start.html">Paul Graham</a><span>:</span><br></p><blockquote><em>"A lot of would-be startup founders think the key to the whole process is the initial idea, and from that point all you have to do is execute. Venture capitalists know better. If you go to VC firms with a brilliant idea that you’ll tell them about if they sign a nondisclosure agreement, most will tell you to get lost. That shows how much a mere idea is worth. The market price is less than the inconvenience of signing an NDA."</em><br></blockquote><p>When we start a project, a full NDA and confidentiality clauses will be included in our contract. But we won't sign a full legal NDA simply to hear a project brief.<br></p><p>We ask that at the beginning of the process, clients find a way to communicate their project brief with us without requesting that we sign an NDA.</p><p>Be aware that this principle may require you to educate the client and help them to understand why we take this position.</p><h3>Exceptions</h3><p>If we're dealing with a corporate client and we get to the stage of a pitch where we're dealing with real, sensitive information, a Hanno Director is able to sign our standard NDA for that client.</p><h3>Will you work with my competitors?</h3><p>We work in the services industry, and with a lot of startups. To agree to an exclusivity clause would require us to charge an extremely high fee because it would significantly limit our client base.</p><p>We do, however, respect confidential information at all times and won't disclose any of that to anyone else we work with. Where possible, we will try to avoid placing the same shipmates on projects with similar or competing clients.</p><p><br></p>

<hr />

_Last updated: Fri Apr 28 2017 17:45:19 GMT+0100 (British Summer Time)_